# sky_tiling

## Requirements: ## 

0. Python 2.7
1. Argparse
2. Astropy (>1.3)
3. Healpy
4. Matplotlib
5. Numpy
6. Scipy

## Installation ##

The main ranked-tiling code is supposed to be used as a module. Thus the installation involves simply setting up the environment. This is done by the customized setup.py script. Running this code requires the following arguments:


  (*)  --work      : The name of the working directory. The configuration script will be created here.
  
  (*) --telescope : The name of the telescope. Currently only works for ATLAS, BlackGEM, Pan Starrs and ZTF. In future 
                  developments, this will work for any generic telesscopes with square FOV.
                  
  (*) --site      : The site of the observatory. This is required for the "scheduler". Note required for finding ranked-tiles.
                  However, the argument still needs to be supplied (could be just a fake site name).
                  
  (*) --extension : The file extension (png, pdf etc) of the plot of the tiles. Only required for the plotting method.
                  However, the argument still needs to be supplied (could be just a fake extension name).

Example commands:

python setup.py --work ~/RunDir/sky_tile_work --telescope BlackGEM --site None --timemag None --extension png

python setup.py --work ~/RunDir/sky_tile_work --telescope BlackGEM --site lasilla --timemag None --extension pdf

...
*NOTE: Currently the setup script has to be run from the repository itself.*

Running this should generate a config file in the work directory. The std output of the script is the environment variables that will need to be exported. Once that is done, the ranked-tiling methods will be available for use:

## Basic function calls ##
skymap_file = 'bayestar.fits.gz' ### GW sky Map

tileObj = rankedTilesGenerator.RankedTileGenerator(skymap_file, 'config.ini')

[ranked_tile_indices, ranked_tile_probs] = tileObj.getRankedTiles(resolution=256)

This generates the ranked tiles and their corresponding probability values.

To plot the tiles use the following method:
tileObj.plotTiles(ranked_tile_indices, ranked_tile_probs, FOV=2.7, tileEdges=True, CI=0.90, save=True)

where, we are plotting for the BlackGEM's FOV. If tileEdges is set to False then the boundary of the tiles will not be plotted. Only the tile centers will be kept. If FOV is not given, then note tile boundary will be plotted either. 'save' allows the plot to be saved using the extension provided in the config file (generated by the setup script). CI is the confidence interval.

## Tile-Pixel maps ##

A vital ingredient for the ranked tile generation is the tile-pixel map for a telescope. This allows rapid computation of the ranked tiles. Currently the repository contains tile-pixel maps for the four aforementioned telescopes. Only resolution of nside=256 is available for all the telescopes. Higher resolution maps are larger, and we will provide them via other means (currently available in the NEMO cluster of UWM). However, the users are welcome to generate their own tile pixel maps. We describe this below:

If the user defines a telescope that is among the standard telescope name for this repository, namely Atlas, BlackGEM, PS1 and ZTF, then the ranked-tiling code will use the existing pre-computed tile-pixel maps in the utilities directory of the repository. However if a non-standard telescope name is used, then the user has two option:

Option 1.

User can specify a tile center file, which has the center of the predefined sky-grid for the tiles. The format of the tiles is as shown below (no spaces between lines). Examples of such files can be obtained from the tile_center_files directory of the repository.

ID        ra_center         dec_center

0         25.00            -89.9

1         51.43            -88.36

2         102.86           -88.36

3         154.29           -88.36

4         205.71           -88.36

The setup command that needs to be run in such a case is:

python setup.py --work ~/RunDir/sky_tile_work --telescope <some telescope> --site <some site or None> --timemag <some time magnitude file or None> --tilefile <name and full path of tile file> --extension png

This will first create the tile-pixel map file and put it in the tile_pixel_maps directory of the repository. Then create the config file in the working directory with the paths to this file in the right section.



Option 2.

If the user do not have such a file, then this file first needs to be generated first. You would need to know the field-of-view (FOV) of the telescope to generate. Note that currently the software can only handle square FOV.

To do this run the setup script with the following options:

python setup.py --work ~/RunDir/sky_tile_work --telescope <some telescope> --site <some site or None> --timemag <some time magnitude file or None> --fov <telescope FOV> --extension png

This will prompt the setup script to first generate an ad-hoc tile coordinate file that it will put in the tile_center_files directory. It will then use this file to generate the tile-pixel map files that it will put in the tile_pixel_maps directory of the repository. Finally it will create the config file and put in the work directory with the right paths.




Other methods:


1.  searchedArea: Given a sky-map and the actual injection position, we can find 
                  the total searched area and the searched probability to reach 
                  to the source. The resolution of the sky-map can also be supplied.


2.  sourceTile:   Give the ranked tiles and the actual injection position, this 
                  method finds the source tile index. 
                  
3.  detectability:  Function - given the rank of the source tile, integrtion time 
                    per tile, the total observation time, the distance to the 
                    source and limiting magnitude - time data for the telescope, 
                    this function gives the detectiability of the source


